# SPE-project

Project of The Simulation and Performance Evaluation course @ UNITN

Draft project for a full stack communication network simulator. The aim of the project is to build a modular simulator that allows to conduct performance evaluation on multiple PHY/MAC/NETWORK protocols in different environment and channels (eg, static/mobile networks, wireless/wired/underwater channels).

The simulator can be easily extended by adding single modules that implement any other particuar protocol (at any layer) or channel model. After adding the module, Entities implementing such protocols or models can be bootstrapped in the code and the simulator is ready to run. Objects called Monitors can be instantiated and attached to the Entities to register Events and Logs generated by the Entities and generate reports.

For the initial public draft (this repo), only a static wireless 802.15.4 network stack is implemented for performance evaluation the custom routing protocol implemented in a companion project (https://github.com/damiano-salvaterra/LPWN-project2), as an exam project for a University course.

## Pre-commit Hook Setup

This project uses [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) to automatically format code with [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/) before each commit.

To set up pre-commit hooks, run:

```sh
pip install pre-commit black
pre-commit install
```

To manually run the hooks on all files:

```sh
pre-commit run --all-files
```

This ensures your code is always formatted and consistent before committing.
